>> David, welcome to Talk Python To Me.
Awesome to have you here.
>> Yeah. Thank you, Michael.
>> Yeah. I'm really excited to see what the AIs have to say today.
>> The AIs. Yeah. Language models, sure.
>> Yes, exactly.
Now, you've built a really cool extension for
Jupyter that plugs in large language models for people.
It's looking super interesting,
so I'm excited to talk to you about it.
>> Yeah. I'm excited to talk about Jupyter AI too.
I've actually presented this twice at one set,
actually three times.
I did a short demo at this tech meetup thing in Seattle.
That was actually the first time Jupyter AI was shown to the public.
Then I presented at PyData Seattle at Microsoft's Redmond campus.
Then I got to present again at JupyterCon in Paris.
This May, it was a really wonderful experience.
>> Wow. You're making the rounds.
>> Yeah. I love to talk about Jupyter AI.
It happens to get me some plane tickets.
>> Honestly, that's like half the bonus of conferences,
is awesome places you get to go.
The other half probably is the people you meet. It's really cool.
>> For me, it's almost all the people.
The people are just so great, especially JupyterCon.
>> Yeah. The JupyterCon videos are now out for JupyterCon 2023.
There's a ton of good-looking talks there.
>> Yeah. Lots of really smart people.
I was chatting to a few folks there.
That's the only place where you're going to find people who work at
these hedge funds and trading firms just lounging so idly and casually.
>> The markets open and they're chilling. It's all fine.
>> Yeah. There's a lot of smart people there.
>> Yeah. I think Jupyter,
more than a lot of programming technologies,
bring people from all sorts of different places together, different backgrounds.
>> Yeah. There's a lot of reasons behind that.
But long story short,
Jupyter is pretty awesome and that's why I wanted to contribute to it.
>> Yeah. Awesome. Well, let's start
this whole conversation with a bit of background about yourself.
For people who didn't see your talk and don't know you yet,
tell us a bit about you.
>> I mean, I didn't really give much of an intro there either, but sure.
I've worked for AWS as a software engineer.
I've been with AWS,
specifically the AI/ML organization at AWS.
I've been with them for almost two years now.
Right now, my manager is actually Brian Granger,
who's the co-founder of Project Jupyter.
He also works for AWS.
He's been offering some technical and product guidance
for the things that we're building.
He's a fantastic gentleman to work with.
>> Yeah. That's really neat to have him available as a resource, as a colleague.
>> Yeah. It's funny.
I met him internally.
When I first joined, I wasn't working for him.
But at tech companies,
you can do this internal transfer thing.
Basically, the team I just joined,
right after I joined, it started to dissolve a little
because they just launched a product at reInvent,
which happens in December.
I joined in December and it's like, "Oh, hi."
So then I saw Brian Granger's name somehow and I messaged him.
I didn't even know that he was the co-founder of Project Jupyter.
I just wanted to work for him because I used it before.
Yeah. It's a pretty funny story.
>> Yeah. Indeed. I imagine that project is really,
this is Jupyter AI is a great example.
But I just thinking of being, say,
a founder of Jupyter or something like that,
these things take on a life of their own.
He's probably in awe of all the stuff happening and all the things going on.
There's probably a lot of stuff in Jupyter he doesn't even know about, right?
It's like that's happening.
>> Yeah. It's huge.
The leadership structure has changed to accommodate that.
So Brian is no longer the benevolent dictator for life.
Project Jupyter is now governed by a committee.
It's decentralized and democratized to allow it to scale.
>> Yeah, of course.
So let's start by talking about a bit of the role of AI in data science.
I don't know how you feel about it.
Obviously, you must be somewhat of an advocate putting
this much time and energy into bringing it to Jupyter.
>> Wow.
>> However, I personally,
when I want to know something,
I don't think there's a great specific search result for it.
Straight to ChatGPT or friends,
I think there's such a wealth of information there.
From I need to take this paragraph and clean it up and make it sound better,
to I have this program,
I want to convert to another language,
or I have this data in this website.
How do I get it? You can ask
so many open-ended questions and really get great answers.
So it seems to me,
especially coming from, like I mentioned before,
those diverse backgrounds, people not necessarily being super deep in programming,
maybe they're deep in finance,
but they do programming, that having this AI capability to ask,
like, "Hey, I know I can, but how?"
What do you think for data science in particular?
>> Yeah. This is an interesting topic,
because I think the whole power of language models stems from their ubiquity and
versatility and how they can be very generally applicable.
The thing about language models is that they're
basically statistical models that have been trained on a very,
very, very large corpus of data.
To the computer, the computer doesn't really
understand English, it doesn't really understand natural language.
It has, when it's trained,
it has knowledge of the distribution of information and
how information interacts with other information.
So because of that,
it has a very general applicability.
I don't think that's utilities limited to data science.
Now, if we're talking about the field of data science specifically,
I think language models have
extraordinary utility and explanatory natural language tasks,
which I think everybody is aware of now,
now that ChatGPT has been out for almost a year.
>> Yeah.
>> But I think in the field of data science and other deep technical fields,
they're especially applicable because of how complicated some of the work is.
So yeah.
Yeah. Chat AI can also help analyze and debug code,
which JupyterLab also allows you to do.
>> Yeah. I think I know it's statistics,
but when you look at it,
it seems like it understands.
It seems like it understands my question.
I think one of the really interesting parts is
the fact that these LLMs have a context.
I would like you to write a program in Python.
Okay, great. Tell it to me.
I want a program that does X, Y,
Z, and then it writes it in Python,
which sounds so simple,
but up until then,
things like Siri and all the other voice assistants,
they seemed so disjointed and so not understand.
I just asked you about the weather.
When I ask you how hot it is,
how do you not understand that that applies to the weather?
The fact that you converse with them over a series of interactions is pretty special.
>> Yeah. I mean, the context is basically implemented just by
passing the whole history appended to your prompt.
So yeah, it's not like any super staple magic or whatever,
but it's still very interesting how far you can take it.
Yeah, definitely.
Like the context allows you to interact with the AI a lot more conversationally and humanly.
You don't have to pretend you're talking to an AI.
You can actually just treat it like a human and it still answers questions very well.
>> Yeah. It was even at Google,
there was that engineer who said they thought it had become
sentient and there was that whole drama around that, right?
>> This is such a crazy coincidence,
but my roommate is actually friends with that gentleman.
>> Oh, really? Okay. Wow.
>> Absolutely crazy coincidence.
Like I just thought it was really funny you bring it up.
It was a Cajun gentleman,
senior engineer at Google.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Very funny.
>> It's been a little while. I don't remember all the details,
but yeah, I mean, it's pretty wild and pretty powerful.
I think I've recently read,
I'm trying to quick look it up, but I didn't find it.
I think they just used LLMs to discover a new protein folding.
It's that kind of stuff that makes me think like,
okay, how interesting that knowledge wasn't out there in the world necessarily.
>> Yeah. I have a lot to say on that subject.
Personally, I don't believe that language models are actually intelligent.
I think that people are conflating.
Well, they're certainly not conscious.
>> Absolutely. Yeah.
>> As to whether they're intelligent,
I don't think they are.
I think that intelligence has,
like intelligence as we know it,
as humans know it, has
some different characteristics that language models don't really exhibit.
They're best thought of as really,
really, really good statistical models.
Are you familiar with the mirror test?
>> Maybe, but I don't think so.
>> Yeah. It's like this idea in animal psychology,
but if a cat sees a mirror,
it thinks it's another cat because-
>> Right. You see them all get big and trying to act big and tough,
to chase it off and it's just them.
>> Yeah. Language models are like that, but for humans.
If something mimics human-like quality closely enough,
it's very tempting to think of it as human.
>> Yeah. We see faces on Mars when it's really just erosion, stuff like that.
>> Yeah. Exactly. I could talk about this for a full hour,
but yeah, we should totally move on to another topic.
>> Well, when you're saying it's not that intelligent,
I'm wondering if maybe you've misnamed this project.
Maybe it should just be Jupyter A,
like the eye. Do you guys got the eye? I don't know.
>> I mean, we're just following convention, right?
So I still use the term AI.
>> Of course. Of course. You got to talk to people.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, emphasize the artificial.
>> Yeah. Before we get to Jupyter AI,
what came before?
How did people work with things like Chats GPT and other LLMs in Jupyter,
before stuff like Jupyter AI came along?
>> Yeah. That's a great question.
So I think initially,
it was a combination.
So the initial motivation for this project came through a combination
of a demo put together by Fernando Perez,
who is another, I believe,
another co-founder of the project, Jupyter.
He put together this demo called JupiT,
which is spelled like Jupyter,
except the last letter is an E,
and it's a pun of like Chat GPT, right?
JupiT. So it was a combination of that demo project set by Fernando,
and some motivation from my manager, Brian,
who also was as a leader in the AWS AI organization.
He's always trying to think of fancy,
fancy new ideas, right?
This is a pretty fun idea to work out.
So I put together,
I think this was sometime in early January,
I put together the first demo.
It was private, and I showed it off to the team,
and they were like, "Wow,
this has a lot of potential.
Let's see if we can grow it a bit more."
Then as we worked on it for the next few months,
it became clear like, "Oh, wow,
this is actually really significant.
Let's keep working on this."
So yeah, it's definitely been
a collaborative effort to bring Jupyter AI to where it is today.
>> Yeah. Sounds like it.
Definitely a lot of contributors over on the GitHub listing.
So let's get into it.
What is Jupyter AI?
People can guess, but it's also different in ways
than maybe just plug it in a chat window.
>> Yeah. So Jupyter AI is actually,
right now it's two packages.
But it's best thought of as just a set of packages that
bring generative AI to Project Jupyter as a whole.
So not just JupyterLab,
but also Jupyter Notebook and IPython.
>> Even the shell. I guess
you invoke it by doing the magic there as well.
>> Well, it's the IPython shell,
which is not the same as a Bash shell.
>> Got it. Yeah, of course.
>> Right.
>> Interesting.
>> Yeah. So I can dive into
a little bit more detail on what these two packages are.
So we have the base Jupyter AI package,
which is spelled exactly as you might imagine it.
It's Jupyter-AI.
That is a JupyterLab extension that brings a UI to JupyterLab,
which is the screenshot that you're showing on your screen,
but for viewers without a screen,
it basically is the package that adds
that chat panel to the left-hand side
and allows you to speak conversationally with an AI.
Then the second package is Jupyter-AI magics,
which is spelled the same except at the end,
it's spelled hyphen magics.
That is actually the base library that
implements some of the AI providers we use
and brings these things called magic commands to the IPython shell.
Magic commands basically let you invoke our library code,
aka using it to call language models, for instance.
That allows you to do it inside an IPython context.
What's crazy is that if you run IPython in your terminal shell,
you can actually run Jupyter AI from your terminal,
which is pretty cool.
>> Yeah, I didn't realize that.
It makes sense, of course,
but I hadn't really thought about it.
I thought more of this like a GUI type of
thing that was alongside what you're doing.
>> Yeah, we try to make it flexible and there's
reasons for the magic commands
which I can talk about that later though.
>> Yeah, sure. Now, one thing,
you said this but I want to emphasize it a little bit in that.
>> Yeah.
>> This will run anywhere IPython kernel runs,
which is JupyterLab notebook,
but also Google Colab, VS Code,
other places as well, right?
So pretty much it comes to you wherever your Jupyter type of stuff is, right?
>> Yeah, and the same goes for the lab extension.
So the great thing about lab extensions is that they work
anywhere where the product is just built on top of JupyterLab, right?
So Google Colab is essentially what Google has is a,
well, I obviously can't attest to what they're actually doing.
But most likely, it's like a set of extensions or
CSS themes that are built on top of JupyterLab,
but the underlying code is still JupyterLab.
It's still mostly JupyterLab.
So you can actually just install extensions and they work just fine,
which is another reason why JupyterLab is just pretty awesome.
>> Yeah, it sure is.
JupyterLab itself is basically a pre-selected,
pre-configured set of extensions, right?
>> Yes, that is true.
>> Yeah. So I've been giving preference to,
or showing just what I play with mostly,
which is chat-gpt.
But there's actually a lot of language models that you can work with, right?
>> Oh, yes. So one of the big things,
and this is something I'll circle back to you later,
is that Jupyter AI is meant to be model agnostic,
meaning that we don't discriminate against the choice of model or model provider.
Because as an open-source project,
it's very imperative that we maintain the trust of our users, right?
The users have to be sure that this isn't just
some product that exists to force them,
or pigeonhole them into using a certain model provider like OpenAI or Anthropic, right?
The product makes no opinions.
We simply try to support everything as best as we can.
We've written a lot of code to make sure that
all of these models just play nicely together essentially.
Every model provider, let's say from Anthropic or AI21 or Cohere,
every one of these APIs has its own quirks,
every one of these Python SDKs has its own quirks.
We work very hard to basically iron out
the surface and make everything have the same interface.
I think we can talk about that later though.
>> Sure. It also makes it pretty easy to try them out, right?
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Switch from one to the other.
I wonder how Hugging Face versus OpenAI would do to solve this problem, right?
>> Absolutely, right?
That's one of the ideas is while certain model providers,
they might offer a UI if they're very well funded by their investors.
For example, OpenAI, they have a UI.
But that UI only allows you to compare between different models from OpenAI,
which as independent third party looking to use an AI service,
that information is obviously a little biased, right?
You want to see what other providers have to offer.
What does AI21 have?
What does Anthropic have?
Right now, there really is no cross-model provider UI or interface in general.
That's one of the use cases that Jupyter AI was intended to fit.
>> Yeah, provides a standard way to interact with all these and compare them.
It's also a UI for them if you're using JupyterLab.
Yeah. I'm not familiar with all of these different models and companies.
Do any of those run locally,
things like GPT for all where it's like a local model versus some kind of Cloud?
Where's your key? Where's your billing details and all that?
>> Yeah. We actually recently just merged
a PR that adds GPT for all support and that's included in the release.
However, I think back when we first implemented this a few months ago,
I had a few issues with platform compatibility.
Some of the binaries that we downloaded from GPT for
all didn't seem to work well on my M1 Mac, for instance.
I'd say, yes, we do have local model support,
but it's a bit experimental right now.
We're still ironing out the edges and
testing, seeing how we can make the experience better.
Does it sometimes only give bad output because we
forget to install the shared library?
Those are the type of questions that our team is wrangling right now.
>> I see. I just jumped right into it,
but maybe tell people what GPT for all is just real quickly.
>> Yeah. I mean, GPT for all offers a few local models.
Actually, they offer several, I believe.
>> Yeah. I think they offer maybe like 10 to 15.
The number is getting quite large.
>> Yeah.
>> To the point where I don't know what the right choice is.
I'm like, which one do I download?
They say they're all good. Of course,
they're going to say they're good.
>> Yeah. I'll be frank.
I don't actually have that much experience with GPT for all.
We mainly use them as a provider
for these free and open source language models.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Beyond that,
I think they offer a UI as well for multiple platforms.
>> They do. Yeah. Basically,
I've only played with them a little bit,
just started checking it out.
But it's basically a local.
You download the model, you run it locally,
you don't pay anything because it's just running on your machine,
as opposed to say,
OpenAI and others where you've at least got rate limiting,
and certain amount of queries before you have to pay,
and maybe potentially access to better models like chat,
GPT-4 versus 3.5 and so on.
>> Well, I think that's also taking
the characteristics of these service providers for granted.
Yes, definitely.
While it does hurt the wallet to pay for usage credits,
it's also pretty remarkable how
small the latency has gotten with some of these APIs.
I've gotten sub 500 millisecond latency on some of these APIs.
That's really incredible because when I was using GPT for all,
the latency was a little bit high,
when running locally with limited compute resources.
It's really remarkable how fast these APIs are.
>> It is pretty insane. Sometimes, it drives me crazy.
I'm just only again referring to ChatGPT
because I don't have the experience with the others to the degree,
but it drives me crazy how it artificially limits
the response based on the speed of the response.
So it looks like it's chatting with you.
I'm like, "No, I have four pages of stuff because you just get it out."
It'll say something like,
if you can ask, I gave you a five-page program.
Let's call it X. If you say,
"What is X?" It'll just start printing it slowly line by line.
You know you just are echoing it back.
Just get it out. I want to ask you the next question.
You know what I mean?
>> Yeah. In that case,
that's actually a feature request that we've gotten
because it doesn't actually slow down.
It's not just like a pointless animation.
The servers are streaming essentially token by token,
as the language model generates output.
So it's more like a progress indicator
than a superfluous animation.
>> Yeah, of course. But if you've got something large,
large blocks of text you're working with,
it can be a drag.
I wanted to touch on some of
the different features that I pulled out that I thought were cool.
I mean, obviously, it goes without saying that Jupyter AI is on GitHub.
I mean, because it's software.
It's open source, which I don't know if we said that,
but obviously free open source on GitHub,
BSD3 license.
But it's also noteworthy that it's officially under
the JupyterLab organization, not under the David account.
>> Yeah. It's officially part of the JupyterLab sub-project.
Yeah, as you pointed out,
we're under the JupyterLab GitHub org as well.
>> Yeah, that's awesome. All right.
So let's talk about some of the different things you can do with it.
Some of them will be straightforward,
like just like how do I write a function in Jupyter AI?
Others, I think, are going to be a little more interesting.
So let's start with asking something about your notebook.
Tell us what people can do here.
>> Yeah. So asking about your notebook basically means
like you can actually teach Jupyter AI about certain files.
So the way you do this is via a slash command in the chat UI.
So you type slash learn and then file path,
and it essentially teaches the Jupyter AI about that file.
Now, it works best with files that are written in natural language.
So like text files or markdown.
Yeah. So especially like developer documentation as well.
It works best with those kind of files.
After Jupyter AI learns about these files,
you can then ask questions about the files it's learned by
prefixing your question with the slash command, which is, yeah.
>> That is so cool.
>> It's pretty cool. It is pretty cool, I know.
>> It's so cool because what I've done a lot of times,
if I want ChatGPT to help me,
it's like, all right, well,
let me copy some code.
>> Right.
>> Then I'm going to have a conversation about it.
But a lot of the context of, well,
it's actually referencing this other function and what does that do?
Or just a broader understanding of what am I actually working on is missing.
Because you can't paste 20 files into ChatGPT and start talking about it.
But with this, you can.
You can say learn about different things.
You can say learn about your notebook,
but you can also probably tell it like,
learn about my documentation or learn about my dataset.
Now, let me talk to you about it.
>> Yeah. What's interesting is that right now,
while it works best for natural language documents,
we are working on improving the experience for code.
From our testing, the code is mostly like the capabilities of
Jupyter AI after learning code is right now,
mostly limited to explaining what code does.
But it explains it from the doc stream.
We're working on a way to format the code in a manner
that is more interpretable to a language model.
It's more, yeah,
and we're working on ways to improve the experience for code.
But yeah, definitely.
The long-term vision is to have Jupyter AI literally be able to learn from
a whole directory of files or possibly even a URL,
like a remote URL to a documentation page.
Or yeah, we have some big ideas there.
We're still working on them.
>> I want to work with a new package XYZ.
I don't know what XYZ is.
You know what? Here's where you can learn about it.
Go and figure it out. Yeah.
>> Right. Like query the PyPI API,
get the docs page from the metadata,
and then go to that URL, scrape it.
>> Yeah.
>> Lots of things we're exploring.
I've been trying.
>> It's still early days for this, right?
You've been at it about a year or so?
>> Yeah. It's been out for a while.
Recently, I've had to work on a few other things as well,
like Jupyter AI.
Unfortunately, I cannot give my entire life to Jupyter AI.
So I've been working on a few other things these past few months.
But yes, there are a lot of things that I envision for Jupyter AI.
I have a much bigger vision for what I want this project to be capable of.
>> Okay. Exciting.
Exciting. So what is this screenshot that you got here in the section that I'll link to in
the show notes is cool because you can select a piece of a portion,
not even a whole cell,
but a portion of code in a cell,
and then you can ask,
what does this code do?
>> Right.
>> That's awesome.
>> Yeah. We have an integration with the JupyterLab Editor APIs.
So you can select a block of code and then include that in your prompt,
and it will be appended to your prompt below.
It's appended to box, sorry.
You can basically ask, so you can select a block of code.
So in this screenshot right here,
there's this block of code that computes the least common multiple of two integers.
You can select that and then click "Include
selection" and then ask Jupyter AI,
what does this do, which is pretty awesome.
>> Yeah. Another checkbox is "Replace selection."
I'm guessing that is like,
help me rewrite this code to be more efficient or if there's any bugs, fix it.
>> So the replace selection checkbox is totally independent.
So you can actually use both at the same time.
One of the use cases for this is refactoring.
I've actually applied this in practice a few times,
where you can basically select a block of code,
and then click both "Include" and "Replace selection."
Then you can format your prompt to say,
refactor this block of code,
do not include any additional help or text.
When you send that prompt over,
it will actually refactor the code for you in your notebook, which is pretty great.
>> That's pretty awesome. You could do things like,
refactor this to use guarding clauses so it's less nested,
less arrow code or whatever.
>> Yeah, or add a docstring.
Summarize the purpose of this function and then enclose that in a docstring.
Add it to the function.
>> Yeah.
>> Or this code is Panda's code,
but I'd like to use Polars.
Please rewrite it for Polar.
>> Yes.
>> It's not a super compatible API.
It's not like DAST to Panda,
where it's basically the same.
>> Yeah. This circles back to that question you had asked earlier.
I think I went on a tangent there and didn't fully answer,
but what is the utility of Jupyter AI to data practitioners?
So data scientists, machine learning engineers.
The include selection features,
we've heard great feedback about how helpful it is
to actually explain a dataset.
So sometimes you're working with a test set
and it's not immediately clear what the features of this test set are,
or what this even does because sometimes it's high-dimensional data.
They can literally select it and then click
include selection and say, and tell Jupyter AI,
explain to me what this does.
Just like what is this data frame stuff?
Like, well, we got data frames and data frames.
What's going on here?
What even is the structure of this?
>> Yeah.
>> That's awesome. I think it's super valuable.
I think this is a little bit I was getting to before,
one of the features that I think is cool.
Whereas if you just go with straight ChatGPT,
you copy your code,
you paste it into the chat.
Hopefully, it doesn't say it's too much text and then you can talk about it.
But then when you get an answer,
you've got to grab it,
move it back over,
and this fluid back and forth is really nice.
>> Yeah. That's actually one of the design principles that we
worked out when first starting this project officially,
is the idea that Jupyter AI should be human-centered.
As in, you shouldn't be expected to be a developer to know how to use this tool.
Like this tool is for humans,
not for any specific persona,
just for humans in general.
>> That's awesome. Yeah. In this case,
you select the function that does the lowest common denominator bit,
and you ask it what it does.
It says, "The code will print out
the least common multiple of two numbers passed to it."
Super simple, very concise.
Okay, great. Now, we can go on to the next thing.
>> Yeah.
>> That's awesome. Then there's this LCD function
that we're talking about here.
This example is recursive, which I think recursion is pretty insane.
>> Yeah.
>> As just a concept for people like-
>> Wait, no. This is the iterative version.
So this is after the-
>> This is after, yeah. So if we go back up.
>> Yeah.
>> It's- Anyway.
But one of the things you ask it is things like,
an example is rewrite this function to be iterative,
not recursive, which is actually really, really awesome.
You're like, "This is breaking my brain.
Let's see if we can not do that anymore."
Another thing I wanted to talk about,
and you've talked a fair amount about this in your presentations that you did.
I can't remember if it was the JupyterCon or the PyData one that I saw.
>> Yeah.
>> But one of those two. You talked about generating
new notebooks and how it's actually quite a tricky process.
You've got to break it down into little steps because if you ask too much from
the AI it doesn't give you a lot of great answers.
Tell us about making new notebooks.
Why would I even use- I can go to JupyterLab and say,
"File new," and it'll make that for me.
So what's this about?
>> Yeah. So the generate capability is great because it generates a file that is
essentially a tutorial that can be used as a tutorial to teach you about new subjects.
So you could, for example,
submit a prompt like slash generate a notebook about asyncio,
or a demonstration of how to use Matplotlib.
This will take a bit of time,
but eventually Jupyter AI is done thinking and generates a file.
It names the file and generates a notebook,
and the notebook has a name,
it has a title, it has sections,
table of contents, and each of the cells within it,
is tied to some topic that is determined to be
helpful and to answer the user's question.
>> Awesome. Could I do something like,
I have weather data in this format from the US Weather Service,
and could you generate me a notebook to plot
this XYZ and help me answer these questions?
Could I ask it something like that?
>> Not at the moment.
So that would be done best.
Since the data is already,
I'm assuming that the data is already available in some format.
So in a notebook, you could use a chat UI to select that selection,
and then tell Jupyter AI to generate code to plot that data set.
So right now, generate only takes a natural language prompt as its only argument.
>> I see.
>> So it's stateless in that regard.
>> Yeah.
>> So in this case, you can say slash generate
a demonstration of how to use Matplotlib,
and then the response is great.
I'll start working on your notebook.
It'll take a few minutes, but I'll reply when it's ready.
In the meantime, let's keep talking.
So what happens behind the scenes that takes a few minutes here?
>> Oh, yeah. So this is a bit interesting.
It does dive deep into the technical details,
which I'm not sure if you want to just like that.
>> Yeah, let's do it. Yeah. Let's go tell us how it works.
>> Yeah.
>> So it's a good chance to explore that.
>> Yeah. So slash generate,
the first thing is that the prompt is first expanded into essentially a table of contents.
So basically, we tell the language model,
generate us a table of contents conforming to this JSON schema.
When you pass a JSON schema included in your prompt,
the language model will have a much higher likelihood
of returning exclusively a JSON object
that matches that JSON schema that you had initially provided.
So in our case, we generate a table of contents,
and then we take that table of contents,
and then we say for each section,
and we do this in parallel,
generate us some code cells that are
appropriate for teaching this section of the document.
So for example, for matplotlib,
maybe the first section is generating your first plot,
plotting 3D functions, and the next one is like
plotting complex functions with phase or something like that.
Then with each of these sections,
we then send another prompt template to
the language model for each of these sections asking it to generate the code.
Then at the end, we join it all together,
and then we save it to disk,
and then emit that message and say we're done.
>> Okay. So maybe the English literature equivalent would be,
instead of just saying, write me a story
about a person who goes on an adventure and gets lost,
it's like, give me an outline,
bullet points of interesting things that would make up
a story of how somebody goes on an adventure and gets lost.
>> Right. Give us the-
>> Yeah. Then for each one of those, you're like,
now tell this part of the story,
now tell this part, and somehow that makes it more focused and accurate, right?
>> Well, the main limitation is that because we're model agnostic,
language models are limited in how much output they can generate.
>> Yeah.
>> So the issue we were running into when we were trying to do the whole thing all at
once like generate a whole notebook is that some language models just couldn't do it.
In an effort to stay model agnostic,
we deliberately broke this process down into smaller sub-tasks,
each with its own prompt template in order to accommodate these models that may
lack the same token size windows that other models have.
>> Yeah. Interesting. I think just even for ones that have a large token spaces,
I think the more specific you can be,
the more likely you're going to get a focused result instead of a wandering,
vague result. Teach me about math or teach me how to factor,
how to integrate this difference or solve this series of differential equations.
>> Right.
>> Physics. You're going to get a really different answer to those two questions.
>> Yeah. That's also circles back to a topic I did want to call out,
but I don't think we hit on it,
is that the chat UI actually does support rendering in both Markdown and LaTeX,
which is a markup language for math.
You can ask it both complex engineering and mathematical questions,
like asking it to explain you.
Yeah. There might be a demo here.
I'm not sure if it's on this page though.
>> If I had a Fast Fourier Transform in LaTeX,
and I put it in there and say,
what is this? It'll say it's a Fast Fourier Transform or something like that?
>> Yes. It also works the other way around.
You can also use it to say,
"Hey, explain to me what the 2D Laplace equation is,"
or "Explain to me what does this do?"
It will actually generate and format the equation inside the chat UI,
which is really remarkable. I love that feature.
>> It's actually really awesome.
It's also really appropriate for a scientific-oriented thing like Jupyter.
>> Yeah. The remarkable thing is that because ChatGPT and other such language models,
like the ones from Anthropic and AI21,
because they are founded on the premise
where their functionality comes from having such a large corpus of data,
they know a remarkable amount of information.
We've tried some example notebooks of quantum computing and explained those really well.
I tried one with the Black-Scholes options pricing model used in financial engineering.
It's really remarkable, the utility that it offers just by being there in the side panel.
You essentially have a math wizard available to you in JupyterLab at all times.
>> It's probably better than a lot of math professors.
Not necessarily in the depth of one area,
but if you ask somebody who does abstract algebra about real analysis,
they're like, "I don't really do that part."
Or if you ask somebody about real analysis, number three.
You can hit on all the areas,
at least a generalist professor thing.
All right. We talked about the /learn command.
That's pretty excellent already and where that's going.
So I'm pretty excited about that.
>> The /learn command actually does have a lot of interesting technical tidbits to it.
>> Okay. Actually, this is one of the really challenging things with
these chat bots and things.
For example, I've tried to ask ChatGPT,
if I gave just one of the transcripts from the show,
I want to have a conversation about it.
He says, "No, that's too much. I can't do it."
>> Yeah.
>> It's just one show.
In your documentation, there might be a lot of files in there, right?
More than just one transcript levels worth.
So that alone, I think it's interesting just how to ingest that much data into it.
>> Yeah. This is a very interesting subject and it actually is a bit complex.
>> I'm sure it is.
>> Yeah. I mean, if we have the time.
I think there are some other features you want to discuss. I'm not sure.
>> Let's dive into this for just a minute because I think it is interesting.
Because this makes it yours, right?
It's one thing to ask Vagant,
like tell me about the Laplace equation and how does it apply to heat transfer?
Like, okay, great. I have a specific problem with
a specific library and I want to solve it and you don't seem to understand enough of it.
So it really limits the usefulness if it's not a little closer to what you're actually doing.
I think this brings it closer. So yeah, tell us about it.
>> Yeah. So I mean, when you think about it,
language models aren't just governed by their intelligence.
However you measure that, right?
They're also governed by how much context they can take.
So one of the reasons ChatGPT was so remarkable is that it had
a great way of managing context through conversation history.
That seemingly small leap and seemingly small feature is what made
ChatGPT so remarkably disruptive to this industry,
is because of that additional context.
We think about extending that idea,
like how do we give an AI more context,
make it even more human-like and personal?
Well, the idea is similar.
We add more context and that's what learning does.
So the way learning works is that we're actually using
another set of models called embedding models.
Embedding models are very,
very underrated in the AI modeling space.
These are really remarkable things and they have this one,
I'll only cover the most important characteristic of embedding models,
which is embedding models take
syntax and map it to a high-dimensional vector space called a semantic space.
Inside of the semantic space,
nearby vectors indicate semantic similarity.
I know that's a lot of words,
I'm going to break that idea down.
So like canine and dog,
let's take these two words as an example.
These two words are completely different.
They don't even share a single character in similarity together.
They don't have a single letter in common with one another.
Yet we know as humans that these two words mean the same thing.
They refer to a dog.
They have different syntax but the same semantics.
>> So their vectors would be?
>> Would be mapped close.
>> Would be very close by whatever metric you're using.
>> Yeah. So if you extend this idea and you imagine,
okay, what if you split a document?
What if you split a file into one to two sentence chunks?
Then for each of these sentence,
let's just say sentences for example.
Let's say we split a document to sentences and then we take each of
those sentences and then use an embedding model to compute their embedding,
and then store them inside of a vector store.
Basically like a local database that just
stores all of these vectors in a file or something.
Now imagine what happens if we then take a prompt,
like a question that we might have,
encode that as a embedding,
and then we say to the vector store,
for this prompt embedding,
find me all of the other embeddings are close to this.
Well, what you've just done in this process is called a semantic search.
So it's like syntax search except instead of searching based off of
keywords or tokens or other syntactic traits,
you are searching based off the actual natural language meaning of the word.
So this is much more applicable when it comes to natural language prompts and
natural language corpuses of data.
Because this is the actual information that's being stored.
We don't care about the characters,
we care about the information that they represent.
>> The essence of it. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> These vectors are computed by the larger language model?
>> The vectors, the embeddings are computed by an embedding model,
and they're actually a separate category of
model that we have our own special APIs for.
So in our settings panel,
you can change the language model,
and I think we already discussed that.
But what's interesting is that underneath that,
you'll also see a section that says embedding model.
You can change the embedding model to,
we also offer that same principle of model agnosticism there.
>> Nice.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, this is very interesting.
Let's talk really a bit about the format.
You said obviously that you can do LaTeX,
which you say in, you say math, right?
You tell us, give me math.
>> Yeah, give me math.
>> Yeah, it's pretty interesting.
But you can do images,
markdown code, HTML, JSON, text.
There's a lot of different formats you can get the answer back in.
>> Yeah. So when you use the AI magics,
we can pass them to a renderer
first before we show it to output to the user.
>> Yeah, and with the AI magic,
the percent percent AI in the cell,
you can also specify,
that's where you put the format potentially,
but you can also specify the model and the service,
I guess, for the provider.
>> Yeah. So the IPython magics are basically
stateless in the sense that you always
have to specify the model explicitly.
So they don't operate off the premise that you are using JupyterLab.
They don't run off the premise that you have JupyterLab
installed or using the lab extension that we offer.
So because of that,
the model is stated explicitly every time,
and that's by design.
>> When you sat down,
what is your Jupyter AI provider set to? What's your favorite?
>> What's my favorite? As a developer,
I literally pick a random one to give the most test coverage at all times,
and that's actually a great way of finding bugs.
So yeah, I don't have a favorite one.
My favorite one is the one that works,
and hopefully, that should be all of them.
>> Yeah, hopefully. Okay. Interesting.
Yes, you can also tell it to forget what I was talking about.
We're going to start over.
That's pretty interesting that you can do that along the way
because you maybe had a bunch of conversations,
and we talked about the benefit of it,
like knowing the history of that conversation,
but you're like, "All right, no idea."
Switching topics.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Let's see.
I think the last one I wanted to talk about
specifically was interpolating prompts.
You kind of almost like f-strings where you can put in the prompt text,
you can put a variable,
and then other parts of your notebook or program can set that value.
Tell us about this.
>> Yeah. Basically, you can define a variable in your IPython kernel.
That's just dumb, but just like how you define any other variable.
But what's interesting is that IPython is actually
aware of the variables that you are defining.
We can programmatically access that when we implement the magic.
Basically, if you define any variable at the top-level scope,
like let's say poet equals Walt Whitman.
We have a named variable called poet.
Then you can send a prompt over like,
"Write a poem in the style of curly braces poet and curly braces."
When that is run,
the value of that variable is
interpolated and substitutes around the curly braces.
The final prompt becomes,
"Write a poem in the style of Walt Whitman."
When that prompt is sent,
well, you can imagine it generates a poem of Walt Whitman.
The variable interpolation that we offer in IPython
is very useful for very quick debugging.
You can actually reference a cell in the notebook directly.
I think a lot of people don't know this,
but in a Jupyter Notebook,
there's the in and out indicators to the left of each cell.
Say like in.1, out.1.
Those are actual variables and you can use them here too.
You can reference like, "Tell me why this code is failing,
curly braces in.1."
You just screen there, just scroll there.
>> Explain what this does,
the in bracket 11 or what went wrong in out bracket 11?
>> Yeah, something like this.
>> Okay. It's fine long as you don't go and rerun that cell.
>> Yeah.
>> But like you said, this is not for long.
>> Yeah. You can make it
more independent of the order of execution
just by assigning whatever content that is to a named variable.
That way, no matter what order you run them in.
>> Exactly. People might be thinking when you describe
this interpolation thing just bracket,
poem, bracket, curly brace,
curly brace, you're like,
"We already have that in Python."
You just put an F in front of the string and so on.
But this is in the message that goes to the AI cell magic,
not straight Python.
So that's the relevance.
That's why this is interesting, right?
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> This is going straight there.
>> Okay. I guess it
really comes down to the different models that you select.
So you opt into this a little bit or maybe you need to
understand it that way but talk to us a bit about privacy.
If I select something and say,
"What does this do?" What happens?
>> So I think like, yeah,
something important to emphasize here is that whenever you
use a language model that's hosted by a third party,
so it's running on their servers.
Regardless of whether this model is free or not,
the fact that you're sending data to a third party over the Internet,
that's where the privacy and security concerns happen.
That happens whenever you're sending
data across the wire over the Internet.
But we have some special safeguards in place here,
specifically to assuage fears of
concerns over privacy and security that a lot of open-source users have.
One of the important ideas here is
that Jupyter AI is both transparent and traceable.
So when we send a prompt to a language model,
that's always captured in the server logs by default.
So that's always being logged,
that's always being captured.
Yeah. So it's always going to be traceable.
>> There's no secret back channel.
You tell people this is happening.
>> Yeah. So if an operator needs to audit,
"Oh, dang, let me check just to make sure nothing scary was sent over to OpenAI."
Well, the operator can review the server logs and make sure that
all usage is compliant with whatever privacy policy their company has.
Jupyter AI is also exclusively user-driven,
meaning that we will never by default send
data to a language model even if you selected one.
We will never send data to that language model
until explicit action is done by the user.
So in this case, clicking the "Send" button,
clicking "Shift + Enter" and running to sell.
Nothing is sent to language model or embedding model until that happens.
>> Cool.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I think that's really all you can do.
That sounds great.
Because you don't control what happens once it hits OpenAI,
or Dropbake, or whatever, right?
>> Yeah. That's why the transparency is so important.
Oh, I forgot to touch on traceability.
So with these AI-generated cells,
so like the alpha cells,
in the metadata we indicate that
with the model that was used to generate an alpha cell.
>> Oh, nice.
>> If it comes from the Jupyter AI magic.
So that way it's also traceable not just in the logs,
but in the actual files metadata itself as well.
>> That's cool because it'd be really easy to say,
"Have the cell magic," and then you know how notebooks store their last output.
If you upload them to GitHub,
they'll keep their last output unless you say clear all cell outputs.
>> Well, depending on which model you have selected,
you might not get the same output,
not even close to the same output.
So you might want to know, "Well,
how did you get that picture?
Oh, I had a drop it selected and not the other."
Like that is really nice.
>> Right. I've actually used the server logs myself
to debug like prompt templates for instance.
Because what we show in the logs is the full prompt.
After applying our template, after applying the edits,
that's what's actually shown.
So that's also really helpful for developers who need to debug what's happening.
>> Yeah, of course. Or if you're a scientist and you're looking for reproducibility,
I doubt there's much guaranteed reproducibility even across the versions of the same model,
but at least you are in the same ballpark.
At least I know what model it came from.
>> You can set the temperature to zero,
but it won't generate very fun output.
But that is a workaround if you truly need a reproducibility.
>> I suppose, yeah.
The temperature being the ability to tell it how creative do you want,
to figure out how focused do you want the answer to be, right?
>> It's a hyperparameter that basically governs the randomness,
like how far away from the mean it's willing to deviate.
Like vaguely describable as creativity.
>> Yeah, I suppose.
I guess if you're looking for privacy,
the GPT for all might be a good option.
>> Oh, yeah, absolutely.
>> For that, right? Because that's not going anywhere.
>> Yeah. However, some of them do have license restrictions,
and that's also why we have also taken it this low when it comes
to adding more GPT for all support,
is because different models are licensed differently,
and that's another consideration we have to take in mind.
>> Yeah, of course. You're playing in a crazy space with
many different companies evolving licenses.
Yeah. Let's close out with one more thing here, maybe two more things.
One is, there's a lot of interest in these agents,
and it sounds, for example,
your Create a Notebook that does this sort of thing,
like teach me about Matplotlib,
is a little bit agent-driven.
Thinking of like Lang chain and stuff like that,
or even GPT engineer.
>> Yeah.
>> What's the story? Do you have any integrations with that,
any of those types of things?
>> We're working on one where
basically you won't need to use slash commands anymore.
Again, we're just playing around with this,
seeing how well it behaves.
But we are trying to use agents to,
for example, remove the need to use slash commands.
When you say generate a notebook,
it will just generate one.
You don't have to know the slash command for that.
However, we don't use agents at the present moment now.
The reason for that is that they
are not very model agnostic,
at least the ones from our research.
They only work well for
a specific model and a specific prompt template.
But beyond that, it's hard.
>> Nice. All right.
Last question. Running out of time here.
>> Yeah.
>> What's your favorite thing you've done with Jupyter AI?
Not like a feature,
but what have you made it do to help you?
>> Teach Jupyter AI about Jupyter AI.
That's an easy one.
>> What did it learn?
>> Well, learn about itself.
I was at a conference,
so this was at Pi Data,
and I actually got enough questions to the point where I just
downloaded I had the documentation already
available in my home directory because of some of the previous.
>> Like Markdown?
>> Yeah, the Markdown source.
>> Okay.
>> The Markdown source. Then I just had slash learn.
I just learned that doc,
and then I just had that laptop on the side and
told people if you have any questions, try answering that.
>> Just ask it.
>> Yeah, in case you don't want to wait in line.
Yeah, it's pretty remarkable.
The learn feature by far is definitely my favorite,
and it's the one I want to spend the most time developing and pushing.
>> I think there's massive possibility there because to deeply
understand what you're working on in a multifaceted way.
What are the documentations?
What is the code?
What is the data?
What is the network topology and servers I can work with?
All of that kind of stuff,
or pick your specialty.
>> Yeah, and that's how we make AI more human.
>> Yeah, right before it takes over,
so no problem there.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Just kidding.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. Let's wrap it up.
I think we're out of time, David.
So final question.
Some notable Pi PI package,
maybe something awesome you discovered to help you write Jupyter AI.
Anything you want to give a shout out to?
>> So we definitely use LangChain a lot,
and it has some pretty fantastic integrations,
and we're actually built on top of LangChain really.
But also Dask.
Dask is really nice.
Dask has some great visualization capabilities for when you're doing
parallel compute as a great dashboard that's also available in JupyterLab.
>> The dashboard that shows it running and distributing the work in JupyterLab is amazing.
>> One of the contributors also reached out once.
He had heard I was integrating Dask into Jupyter.
He actually reached out to help us and offer
direct one-on-one guidance with using Dask.
Yeah, it's just been a fantastic experience using Dask.
Yeah, I have no complaints.
It's just pretty awesome that somebody has
finally made parallel and distributed compute better in Python.
>> Yeah, for sure.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, Dask is cool. Dask is very cool.
All right. Well, final call to action.
People want to get started with Jupyter AI, what do you tell them?
>> Have installed Jupyter AI or Conda.
Conda install works too. It's on both.
>> Awesome. Well, really good work.
This is super interesting,
and I think a lot of people are going to find value in it.
So I could see some nice comments in
the audience that people are excited as well.
So thanks for being here.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Yeah.
>> See you later.
>> You bet. Bye-bye.